1. How to run a docker container interactively?
by default the docker container launches interactive by running the default image instruction. we can override the default instruction in lauching the container interactively using -it as shown below
docker container run image:tag
docker container run -it image:tag command

2. how to see all the running containers on the docker host?
docker container ls

3. how to stop an running docker container?
docker container stop CONTAINERID/CONTAINERNAME

4. How to remove an docker container?
docker container rm CONTAINERID/CONTAINERNAME

upon completing the execution of the program, the docker container would be terminate/exited, but the container would not be removed from the docker host, since the developers can retrieve the logs of the program/container that has finished execution.
In case we dont need any more the container then we need to manually remove the container

5. how to see all the containers on the docker host irrespective of their status?
docker container ls -a

6. how to forcible stop and remove the container
docker container rm -f CONTAINERID/CONTAINERNAME

7. how to remove all the terminated containers on the docker host?
docker container prune
	
8. 	How to run the docker container as a daemon container?
docker container run -d image:tag

we launch the long running process as daemon containers so that
1. they will not block the TTY
2. and upon existing the TTY the container continues to run in the background

9. How to run a docker container with a given name instead of docker engine generating an name to a container?
docker container run --name "containerName" image:tag

10. How to get the container removed automatically upon exiting the container?
docker container run --name "containerName" -d --rm image:tag

11. How to see the logs generated by the program running inside the container?
when we launch a container as an daemon container, the container runs in background, and doesnt shows up the logs generated by the program running inside the container.
To see the logs generated by the daemon container we can use the below commands
docker container logs CONTAINERID/CONTAINERNAME
docker container logs -f CONTAINERID/CONTAINERNAME = -f stands for flow, means scroll through the generated logs of the container application

12. How to enter into the daemon container that is running and grab the TTY or execute a command on it?
docker container exec -it containerName command
by entering into the running container we can most of the time can debug the program running inside the container	
	
13. There is another way we can enter into running container 
docker container attach CONTAINERID/CONTAINERNAME

this command will attaches the TTY interactively with the running container, so that upon exiting from the TTY the container would gets terminated.
	
14. How to see the details of a container?
we wanted to see the information about the container like
1. cpu usage
2. memory
3. storage
4. imagename
5. network interfaces
6. ip address
7. port nos
etc
docker container inspect CONTAINERID/CONTAINERNAME

	
15. how to start an stopped container?
docker container start CONTAINER_NAME/CONTAINER_ID
when we stop an docker container, the container writable layer will not be destroyed, so that we can restart the container will all the data preserved from the last run. when we remove/destroy the container then only the container writable layer will be removed.
	
	






















	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	


	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	