docker image management commands
---------------------------------
1. How to see all the docker images on the docker host?
docker image ls

2. How to see the details of the image?
details of the image means Author/Maintainer, Licensing, created date, supported platforms, Size, Image Instruction to launch the container etc
docker image inspect image:tag

when an author is publishing an image into the docker container registry, for each image to identify its version a tag will be attached to it. The tag can be alpha nuemaric, so it need not only contains numbers. For every image that is published there will a default tag associated for the image called "latest" which always points to the last published image.
So when we are building and publishing an image, we need to associate the image along with tag, latest tag as well
for eg.. if we are publishing an tomcat docker image of 9.0 version then we need to tag tomcat:9.0 with latest tag as well so that we can access tomcat:9.0 with tomcat:latest

whenever we are publishing a newer verion of the tomcat image for example tomcat:10.0 again we need to retag tomcat:10.0 with tomcat:latest removing latest from 9.0. 
In such a way always the latest will points to the recent version of the image.
	
3. How to retag / add an alias name to an docker image?
For e.g.. we have an docker image with name tomcat:11.0  we want to bind one more name for the same image as tomcat:11_linux, there after we can access the same image with #2 names

docker image tag exitingimage:tag newimage:newtag

4. How to remove an docker image?
removing an docker image means we are removing the docker image from docker host, not from docker registry
docker image rm image:tag

when we run the above command, if there is an existing container ontop of the image, then it produces an error stating removing the container before removing the image.
if the image:tag we are referring is an tag/alias, then it only removes the alias will not remove the image

	
5. how to remove an image, when there is an container associated with it?
docker image rm -f image:tag
-f stands for force along with image, remove the container as well

6. How to remove all the unused images on the docker host?
we want to remove all the images that are not having any containers created on top of them which can be done using
docker image prune

7. How to export an existing docker image on a docker host?
docker image save image:tag -o filename.tar

the save exports the docker image into the -o output filename we specified.
	
8. how to load an docker image from an existing .tar (docker image file)?
docker image load -i filename.tar

-i = stands for input

9. how to pull an image from docker container registry onto a docker host?
docker image pull image:tag

























	

	